## Flatiron Seattle AutoCompete Rules
* Up to three people per team
* Only one computer per team
* Pen and paper will be provided
* Internet access is allowed (though probably mostly unuseful)
* No third party libraries (no gems, no pip, no npm, etc)
* You may solve problems in any order
* Rankings are ordered by the number of problems solved and time taken

## Sample Boiler Plate
All of the programs are required to read input from STDIN (standard input).
Each language has it's own way of accessing this input. Here are samples to
get you started. You can use this boilerplate to build the rest of your
programs around, or read from STDIN any other way you wish.

If you have a text file called `input` and a program called `foo` (in whatever
language) you can have the program read the file input by executing the
following in your bash terminal. The `cat` command prints the contents of
the `input` file and "pipes" the output as input for your program. Your program 
reads from STDIN and reacts to the input.

```
cat input | python foo.py
cat input | ruby foo.rb
cat input | node foo.js
```

Try this out to make sure your programs execute correctly!

**Python 3**
```py
import fileinput
for line in fileinput.input():
  print(line)
```

**Ruby**
```ruby
lines = ARGF.read.split("\n")
lines.each do |line|
  puts line
end
```

**JavaScript**
```js
const readline = require('readline');
const rl = readline.createInterface({
  input: process.stdin,
  output: process.stdout,
  terminal: false
});

const lines = []
rl.on('line', (line) => lines.push(line));
rl.on('close', (line) => compute(lines));

function compute(lines) { console.log(lines) }
```

## Problems

### Acronym
Write a program called `acronym` that reads in words on one line and builds an
acronym by collecting the first letters of any word that is capitalied.

Sample Input
```
American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages
```

Sample Output
```
ACTFL
```

### Check Checkmate Checker !!!
Write a program called `checkmate` that reads in a representation
of a Chess board. The two sides black and white are represented with uppercase
and lowercase letters. Periods are placed in empty squares.

Each piece (pawn, rook, bishop, queen, king, knight) are representing with
their first letter, except the knight is represented with the letter N so
as to not conflict with the K for "king."

Each piece only moves in their standard ways. There is no castling and no
fancy en passant pawn attack.

Consider that it is always upper-cases turn. Your program should print
either "checkmate" or "check" or "uppercase to move"

Sample Input

```
K.r.....
........
r.......
..n.....
........
........
........
.....k..
```

Sample Output

```
checkmate
```

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

### Sherlock's Valid String
This problem was found on HackerRank. The problem and its description is not my
property.

Sherlock considers a string to be valid if all characters of the string appear
the same number of times. It is also valid if he can remove just 1 character at
1 index in the string, and the remaining characters will occur the same number
of times. Given a string s, determine if it is valid. If so, return true,
otherwise return false.

For example, if s = 'abc', it is a valid string because frequencies are {a: 1,
b: 1, c: 1}. So is s = 'abcc' because we can remove one c and have 1 of each
character in the remaining string. If s = 'abccc' however, the string is not
valid as we can only remove 1 occurrence of c. That would leave character
frequencies of {a: 1, b: 1, c: 2}.

Write a program called `sherlock` that reads words line-by-line and prints out
line-by-line whether the string is a valid Sherlock string.

Sample Input

```
abc
abcc
abccc
```

Sample Output

```
true
true
false
```

### Silly Cipher, Steak is for Kids
Write a program called `cipher` that reads in a string containing characters
`a-z` and `0-9`. Your program should extract the digits from the string and
use the digits to decode a message. Messages are encoded with numbers `00-25`
where `00` is `a` and `25` is `z` and so on sequentially.

The message can contain any amount of noise between valid letter encodings.
All letter encodings are two digits so `a` is encoded as `00`, `b` is `01`,
and `08`, `09` and `10` represent `i`, `j`, and `k`.

The decoder should treat the cipher greedily. That is to say it should decode
a number encoding into a letter as soon as it recognizes a valid encoding in
the input.

`0012265` decodes to `amz` from the tokens `00`, `12` and `25`. The `6` in the
sequence is ignored because `26` is not a valid encoding. It only goes up to
`25`. The program sees the first zero and banks it to build up a character
encoding. It sees the second zero and notices that combines with the first zero
to have a legitimate encoding as `00` and decodes `a`. Now it continues and
banks the `1` for the first legitimate digit of the next two-digit encoding. It
sees the `2` and combines that with the first digit for `12` and decodes that
as an `m`. It continues and banks `2` as the next possible first digit. It ignores
the `6` because it is noise. It can not combine as the second digit with the two
because `26` does not fall between `00` and `25`. It then arrives at the `5` and
combines that with the `2` for `25` which decodes to `z`.

Your program should read in one line of encoded inputs and print out the decoded
output.

Sample Input
```
02lyne176xbs1436d22gkl25dm
```

Sample Output
```
crowz
```

Sample Input

```
9dsf9dfg9df0gf0s0sdg102sdf9sdf99s9ss
```

Sample Output
```
abc
```

### Out the In Inside Out Inn
Write a program called `insideout` that reaches into the exact middle of a string
and turns it inside out. If a word has an odd number of letters take the letter in
the center and duplicate it on both inside out ends.

Take the letters from the center and move them to the outside. Letters left of
center go left. Letters right of cener go right.

* `a` becomes `aa`
* `cat` becomes `acta`
* `acta` becomes `caat`
* `bike` becomes `ibke`
* `antidisestablishmentarianism` becomes `ilbatsesiditnamsinairatnemhs`
* `antidisestablisshmentarianism` becomes `silbatsesiditnamsinairatnemhss`

Your program should read each line of input and print our it's inside-out form.

Sample Input
```
a
cat
acta
bike
```

Sample Output
```
aa
acta
caat
ibke
```

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

### Wikipedia Associations
Write a program called `wiki` that reads in links on Wikipedia pages and finds a route
from the start page to the finish page. Each line in the file represents a link from
one page to another page. The first two lines of the input define the start and finish
and are preceded with the strings `start:` and `finish:`.

The input file may be large containing thousands of links.

Your program may find any route at all between the pages. It does not need to be the
shortest route.

Sample Input
```
start:Abraham_Lincoln
finish:Philosophy
Abraham_Lincoln Illinois
Abraham_Lincoln President_of_the_United_States
Abraham_Lincoln Mount_Rushmore
Mount_Rushmore Keystone,_South_Dakota
Mount_Rushmore Alfred_Hitchcock
Mount_Rushmore Viola_(plant)
Viola_(plant) Violet_(color)
Violet_(color) Vincent_van_Gogh
Vincent_van_Gogh Post-Impressionism
Post-Impressionism Art_movement
Art_movement Modern_art
Modern_art Philosophy
```

Sample Output
```
Abraham_Lincoln
Mount_Rushmore
Viola_(plant)
Violet_(color)
Vincent_van_Gogh
Post-Impressionism
Art_movement
Modern_art
Philosophy
```

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

### Clue
Write a program called `clue` that reads in elements from the board game clue.
You're tryinq to find out who committed a murder. The input file starts with
three lines defining the suspects, weapons and rooms possibly involved with the
murder. Then there's a line that simple says "clues:". Then each line that
follows contains a clue of who or what was definitely not involved in the
crime. Rooms and items are prefix with "not the " whereas people are prefixed
with just "not ".

Load in the initial set of all suspects, weapons, and rooms and then read all
the clues until you determine the only possible options left that must have
been involved in the murder.

Print out your findings in the format as shown below. Your output should be on
three lines showing the murderer's name, "in the " room "with the " murder weapon.

Sample Input:
```
Suspects:Colonel Mustard,Ms. White,Ms.Peacock
Weapons:Knife,Candlestick,Lead Pipe
Rooms:Dining Room,Billiard Room,Study
clues:
not Ms. White
not the Billiard Room
not the Study
not the Lead Pipe
not the Knife
not Ms. Peacock
```

Sample Output
```
Colonel Mustard
in the Dining Room
with the Candlestick
```

### Candy Land
Write a program called `candyland` that reads in the number of players, a board
arrangement and how cards are dealt throughout a game. Players take turns
drawing a card and moving forward to the next square that has that space. The
first player to reach the last square on the board wins.

Assume all players start off the board to begin with. They need to draw a card
to move on to the board. Players may occupy the same space.

There may be more cards in the input than it takes for a player to actually
win the game. Simple output one line describing which number of player moves
where. Print "Player N won!" when a player moves to the final square.

Sample Input
```
6
board:green orange green red orange green red blue green purple
cards:red red red orange orange orange green green blue purple
```

Sample Output
```
Player 1 moves to red
Player 2 moves to red
Player 3 moves to red
Player 4 moves to orange
Player 5 moves to orange
Player 6 moves to orange
Player 1 moves to green
Player 2 moves to green
Player 3 moves to blue
Player 4 moves to purple
Player 4 wins!
```

### Definitely Redefinable Delimiter
Write a program called `delimiter` that reads in text of a program that looks
like a function call. Your program should parse the string argument to the
function and add the numbers together. Each number is separated by one of either two
delimiters: either a newline `\n` or a comma `,`.

The result of the add function should be `0` for an empty string.

A user can redefine the comma delimiter to be whatever they want. If you ever
see `//` this indicates the user is going to redefine the comma `,` delimiter
to he next character. You can see in one example below the user refines the
comma delimiter to use a semi-colon `;` instead. Once the new delimiter is
defined the add function splits numbers according to either the newline `\n`
(which may never be changed as a delimiter) or the new delimiter.

In another example you can see the delimiter change from the initial comma
to the pount sign to a vertical pipe `|` and back to the original comma.

Any time the delimiter is changed there is always a newline. It will always be
`//_\n` where the underscore `_` is the new delimiter and it's always immediately
followed by `\n`.

Sample Input
```
add('1')
add('')
add('1,2')
add('2,13\n4')
add('10,20,//;\n1;2;3')
add('1,2//#\n//|\n1|1//,\n4,5')
```

Sample Output
```
1
0
3
19
36
15
```
