### Sum
Write a program called `sum` that reads in a list of line-separated integers
and calculate their sum.

Sample Input
```
93
456
72
71
645
```

Sample Output
```
1337
```

### How Many Anagrams?
Write a program called `anagrams` that reads in a list of words. Your program
should print out the number of words that are anagrams of the first word in
the list.

A word is an anagram of another word if the letters in the first word can be
rearranged to spell the other word.

Here the letters in the first word `skate` can be rearranged to spell
`stake`, `steak`, and `takes` so your program should output `3`.

Sample Input
```
skate
phone
stake
marble
steak
apple
takes
shoes
```

Sample Output
```
3
```

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

### Phone Screen
Write a program in a file called `phonescreen` that simulates unlocking a phone.
Some Android phones have a phone screen lock that allows users to draw a pattern
over nine dots. Users can unlock the phone by dragging their finger across the
dots to repeat the same pattern.

Here's a visualization. The nine dots on the left represent the nine dots on the
screen. The `>` and `v` arrows represent a user swiping across the top three dots
from left to right and then from up to down along the right-most dots.

```
...  >>>
...  ..V
...  ..V
```

The actual coordinates of those nine dots happen to be this: (this is not
program input, this is just to help define the coordinate system)

```
(0.166,0.166) (0.500,0.166) (0.833,0.166)
(0.166,0.500) (0.500,0.500) (0.833,0.500)
(0.166,0.833) (0.500,0.833) (0.833,0.833)
```

Write a program that reads in `(x,y)` coordinates of dots that make up the
unlock pattern then reads in a sequence of inputs representing points where a
user is dragging their finger. Determine if the user matches the unlock pattern
by finding the closest dot for every point in the user input sequence and
determining if the user touched the dots in the same initial pattern.

All of the coordinates are given as their percent position on the screen so the
point `(0.5,.166)` represents the top middle dot in the diagram above. It is
halfway across the screen on the `x` coordinate and `1/6th` of the way down the
screen in the `y` coordinate. The first line in the sample input represents the
unlock pattern "across the top and down the right" as shown above.

Notice that there are multiple points in the user input sequence because the
finger touch registers as touches not just on the dots but moving between the
dots as well.

The second sample input fails because the user starts touching correctly near
the top left dot, but then moves down the left column incorrectly not according
to the initial pattern. The closest point to their touch points starts at the
top left dot, but then the nearest point is the middle left dot and that does
not match the pattern.

Sample Input
```
(0.166,0.166) (0.5,0.166) (0.833,0.166) (0.833,0.5) (0.833,0.833)
(0.166,0.166)
(0.177,0.144)
(0.188,0.188)
(0.199,0.177)
(0.333,0.166)
(0.666,0.166)
(0.888,0.166)
(0.888,0.222)
(0.888,0.333)
(0.888,0.444)
(0.888,0.777)
(0.800,0.800)
```

Sample Output
```
true
```

Sample Input
```
(0.166,0.166) (0.5,0.166) (0.833,0.166) (0.833,0.5) (0.833,0.833)
(0.166,0.222)
(0.166,0.333)
(0.166,0.444)
(0.166,0.500)
```

Sample Output
```
false
```

### A Knights Tail
Write a program called `blacknight`. Imagine a 8x8 chess board. Consider how a
knight moves on a board (straight in any direction three squares then one
direction left or right.) Given a starting position and an ending position
write a program that returns the minimum number of turns for the knight to
get from the starting to the ending position.

Possible locations on the 8x8 board are (0,0) in the top left and (7,7)
on the bottom right. The diagram below shows the correct answer for the
minimum number of moves from the top-left corner at (0,0) to a variety of
other positions on the board. There is only one `3` position shown, for
brevity's sake.

```
0.2.2...
..12....
.1..2...
...2....
2.2.....
........
...3....
........
```

Sample Input
```
0,0
3,6
```

Sample Output
```
3
```

### Prime Factorization
Write a program called `factor` that reads in a number and prints out the
prime factorization of that number, with the prime factors sorted from
highest to lowest.

* Sample Input: `52`
* Sample Output: `13*2*2`

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

### Determine File Type
Write a program called `filetype` that reads file input line by line and token
by token. It should print either just `python` or `ruby` or `javascript`
depending on which language scores the most "likeness" points.

For this program a "token" is each group of characters where all the tokens are
separated by whitespace. For example the following short program is made up of
the tokens `function`, `foo()`, `{`, `console.log('hello`, `world!')` and `}`.
Notice that the `console.log` statement with "hello world" is broken into two tokens
according to the whitespace. Basically, chop up the file input by lines and chop up
each line by whitespace and the things left are your tokens.

```js
function foo() {
  console.log('hello world!')
}
```
* Python gets one likeness point for each of these conditions
  * A token contains the word `print` (both "print 'hello!'" and "print('hello!')" should match)
  * A token is equal to `def`
  * A token is equal to `import`
* Ruby gets one likeness point for each of these conditions
  * A token contains `def`
  * A token contains `end`
  * A token contains `.new`
* JavaScript gets one likeness point for each of these conditions
  * A token is equal to `{`
  * A token is equal to `function`
  * A token is equal to `=>`

You program should total up the likeness points for each programming language for the file.
Print out either `python` or `ruby` or `javascript` according to whichever programming language
scored the most points.

Sample Input
```
print def fake code not a real program
but it has words like function and {
that will trigger the points
end end end end end end end end
ruby is probably winning after that and this token .new
sorry not enough () => javascript { stuff here!!
```

Tokens recognized:
* Python: print def
* JavaScript: function { => {
* Ruby: def end end end end end end end end .new

Sample Output
```
ruby
```

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

### Number Pyramid
Write a program called `pyramid` that prints out a number pyramid. A number
pyramid goes up and down and up and down. I starts at `1` and counts up to the
number in the file input. Each line prints out a sequence of numbers. The first
and last lines just print `1`. The second and second to last lines print numbers
going from `1` to `2` then back to `1`. Every line progresses that pattern until
you reach the number in the input, then the lines progress back down to `1`.

* Sample Input: `1`
* Sample Output: `1`

Sample Input: `3`

Sample Output
```
1
121
12321
121
1
```

Sample Input: `10`

Sample Output
```
1
121
12321
1234321
123454321
12345654321
1234567654321
123456787654321
12345678987654321
12345678910987654321
12345678987654321
123456787654321
1234567654321
12345654321
123454321
1234321
12321
121
1
```

### 

### Autogram
Text source: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autogram>

Submit a program called `autogram` that simply prints any autogram. Well, not
any autogram. You should devise some way to create your own. It should be a
true original work and not just something you found from searching online.
It is ok for your program to just contain a print statement. Your program
does not need to read from file input or generate an autogram automatically
when it runs.

An autogram is a sentence that describes itself in the sense of providing an
inventory of its own characters. They were invented by Lee Sallows, who also
coined the word autogram. An essential feature is the use of full cardinal
number names such as "one", "two", etc., in recording character counts.
Autograms are also called 'self-enumerating' or 'self-documenting' sentences.
Often, letter counts only are recorded while punctuation signs are ignored,
as in this example:
This sentence employs two a's, two c's, two d's, twenty-eight e's, five f's,
three g's, eight h's, eleven i's, three l's, two m's, thirteen n's, nine o's,
two p's, five r's, twenty-five s's, twenty-three t's, six v's, ten w's, two
x's, five y's, and one z.

The first autogram to be published was composed by Sallows in 1982 and
appeared in Douglas Hofstadter's "Metamagical Themas" column in Scientific
American.

Only the fool would take trouble to verify that his sentence was composed of
ten a's, three b's, four c's, four d's, forty-six e's, sixteen f's, four g's,
thirteen h's, fifteen i's, two k's, nine l's, four m's, twenty-five n's,
twenty-four o's, five p's, sixteen r's, forty-one s's, thirty-seven t's, ten
u's, eight v's, eight w's, four x's, eleven y's, twenty-seven commas,
twenty-three apostrophes, seven hyphens and, last but not least, a single !

The task of producing an autogram is perplexing because the object to be
described cannot be known until its description is first complete.[3][4]

```
This sentence employs two a's, two c's, two d's, twenty-eight e's, five f's,
three g's, eight h's, eleven i's, three l's, two m's, thirteen n's, nine o's,
two p's, five r's, twenty-five s's, twenty-three t's, six v's, ten w's, two
x's, five y's, and one z.
```

An empty string does not count as an auto-gram.

### Probably Spelled Correctly
In the list below are the 50 most frequent two-letter sequences (which
are called "bigrams").

Given a list of words determine if they are probably spelled wrong by
asserting each pair of characters in the given words appears in the top
50 most frequent two-letter sequence bigrams. Print out `true` for words
that are probably spelled correctly and `false` otherwise.

The input consists of 50 lines showing you the most frequent bigrams and
their associated frequency. You only really need the first two letters of
each of these lines. The frequency percentages is unused information in this
problem. Notice that STAR matches because the bigrams ST, TA, and AR are all
present in the top 50 bigrams. STARLIGHT is `false` because RL is not present
in the top fifty bigrams. ZOOKEEPER is also considered `false` (even though
these are both real words) because these real words are not composed entirely
of the top fifty most-frequent bigrams.


Sample Input
```
TH  100.3 B (3.56%)  TH
HE   86.7 B (3.07%)  HE
IN   68.6 B (2.43%)  IN
ER   57.8 B (2.05%)  ER
AN   56.0 B (1.99%)  AN
RE   52.3 B (1.85%)  RE
ON   49.6 B (1.76%)  ON
AT   41.9 B (1.49%)  AT
EN   41.0 B (1.45%)  EN
ND   38.1 B (1.35%)  ND
TI   37.9 B (1.34%)  TI
ES   37.8 B (1.34%)  ES
OR   36.0 B (1.28%)  OR
TE   34.0 B (1.20%)  TE
OF   33.1 B (1.17%)  OF
ED   32.9 B (1.17%)  ED
IS   31.8 B (1.13%)  IS
IT   31.7 B (1.12%)  IT
AL   30.7 B (1.09%)  AL
AR   30.3 B (1.07%)  AR
ST   29.7 B (1.05%)  ST
TO   29.4 B (1.04%)  TO
NT   29.4 B (1.04%)  NT
NG   26.9 B (0.95%)  NG
SE   26.3 B (0.93%)  SE
HA   26.1 B (0.93%)  HA
AS   24.6 B (0.87%)  AS
OU   24.5 B (0.87%)  OU
IO   23.5 B (0.83%)  IO
LE   23.4 B (0.83%)  LE
VE   23.3 B (0.83%)  VE
CO   22.4 B (0.79%)  CO
ME   22.4 B (0.79%)  ME
DE   21.6 B (0.76%)  DE
HI   21.5 B (0.76%)  HI
RI   20.5 B (0.73%)  RI
RO   20.5 B (0.73%)  RO
IC   19.7 B (0.70%)  IC
NE   19.5 B (0.69%)  NE
EA   19.4 B (0.69%)  EA
RA   19.3 B (0.69%)  RA
CE   18.4 B (0.65%)  CE
LI   17.6 B (0.62%)  LI
CH   16.9 B (0.60%)  CH
LL   16.3 B (0.58%)  LL
BE   16.2 B (0.58%)  BE
MA   15.9 B (0.57%)  MA
SI   15.5 B (0.55%)  SI
OM   15.4 B (0.55%)  OM
UR   15.3 B (0.54%)  UR
THE
STARLIGHT
ZOOKEEPER
```

Sample Output
```
true
false
false
```

Bigram data source: <https://norvig.com/mayzner.html>

