# AutoCompete 2019&#x2011;09&#x2011;25

---

## AutoCompete 2019-09-25

### Banana Knock Knock
Write a program called `knockknock` that reads two lines of input and reproduces
a knock knock joke. Your program should always print the 1st, 2nd and 4th lines of
the sample input as the standard joke format. Print out the first line of input for
the 3rd line and the 2nd line of input as the 5th line.

Sample Input
```txt
A little old lady.
All this time, I had no idea you could yodel.
```

Sample Output
```text
Knock knock.
Who’s there?
A little old lady.
A little old lady who?
All this time, I had no idea you could yodel.
```

---

### Personal Flotation PDF
Write a program called `pdf` that reads a Mad Libs style text. The text comes
in two sections: the header and the body. The header is a series of lines with
the name of a variable and a string value. The header continues line by line
until you read a line without an equals `=` sign, then the body begins. The
body of the text is a template with placeholders referring to variables. Each
placeholder is a variable name surrounded with a percent sign `%` on each side.

Print out the body of the text and replace each variable with the value of the
variable defined in the header.

Two percent signs in a row with no variable name between them represent that a
single percent sign should be printed in the final output.

Sample Input
```text
event=emergency
verb=panic
adjective=patiently
vehicle=aircraft
In the event of a %event% do not %verb%. wait %adjective%.
The %vehicle% will resume normal operations soon once the
%event% is over. 99%% of the time everything is fine.
```

Sample Output
```text
In the event of a emergency do not panic. wait patiently.
The aircraft will resume normal operations soon once the
emergency is over. 99% of the time everything is fine.
```

---

### Duck Typing
Imagine a duck walking on the letters of the alphabet starting at `A`. The
duck says `qwak` each time it steps right (like from A to B). The duck says
`quack` every time it steps left. Sometimes the duck sits down. Whenever
the duck sits down on a letter it says `qwuack`.

Write a program called `quack` that interprets the sounds of the duck to find
the sequence of letters the duck sits on to "quack" the code. The noises are
presented as space-separated words across any number of lines

```text
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
```

Sample Input
```text
qwuack
qwak qwak qwak qwak qwak qwuack
qwak qwak qwak qwak qwak qwak qwuack
quack quack quack quack quack
quack quack quack quack quack quack
qwuack qwak qwak qwuack
```

Sample Output
```text
aflac
```

---

### Optimus Primes
Write a program that returns the Nth palindrome prime. The first
7 palindrome prime numbers are: [2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 101, 131].

You will not have to calculate any primes over `143787341`.

Sample Input

```text
7
```

Sample Output

```text
131
```

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

---

### Pawn Shop Bishop Hat
Given two chess locations `a1` and `b2` the first is a chess pawn and the
second is a bishop. Can the bishop capture the pawn? Assume there are no other
pieces on the board.

Write a program called `pawn` that prints out either `captured` or `safe`.

Sample Input
```text
a1 h8
```

Sample Output
```text
captured
```

---

### CANAMERICA
"Based on a true story." --Greg Morgan

You are driving to Canada. You are right at the border, but out of gas. There
are two gas stations. One is Canadian with Canadian dollars per liter. One is
American with American dollars per gallon. Determine which is cheaper.

Your input consists of two lines of text each with one price. The Canadian price
is on the top first line because they are our neighbor to the north.

Write a program called `canamerica` that prints out which country has the
cheapest gas and the factor by which it's cheaper by. The factor should be
expressed as a number between `0` and `1` like `Canadian gas is 0.78 times
cheaper.`

Make the following assumptions for your conversations:

```text
1 gallon = 3.78541 liters
1 Canadian dollar = .75 American dollar
```

Sample Input

```text
$1.39
$3.50
```

Sample Output (we will be lenient on minor decimal differences)

```text
American gas is 0.8869089870532003 times cheaper.
```

---

### Scoresheeeeeit
Write a program called `scoresheet` that accepts input representing team
submissions for a fictional programming contest. Each line of input comes in
columns separated by tabs ('\t' or whatever it is in your respective language).
The first line has a start time which you can use to calculate team time
totals.

The columns are as follows: timestamp, team name, problem name, programming
language, and result. The columns are tab separated because team names and
the value of the result may have spaces. 

Generate an ordering of teams based on how many problems have a result value of
`pass` and totaling their timestamps in minutes since the start-time.


Here's how you total the timestamps for a team. First, gather all timestamps
that were associated with a `pass` result. Then calculate the minutes from
that timestamp since the start time of the contest.

Here the `cephalopodcast` team submitted three problems but only two resulted
in a pass. The problems were submitted at minutes :56 and :58, 21 and 23 minutes
after the start time of 6:35. Their total time for solving two problems is `44`
minutes.

```text
(6:56-6:35) + (6:58-6:35) == 21 + 23 == 44
```

Sort the teams from highest to lowest according to how many problems they've
solved, then sort them in place from lowest to highest according to their total 
minutes to solve those passing problems.

Sample Input

```text
start-time:6:35
6:38	cephalopodcast	acronym	ruby	code did not compile
6:43	runtime exception	acronym	java	error
6:43	No idea	sherlock	js	formatting
6:43	Verbose Guac	acronym	python	pass
6:43	Denial	acronym	ruby	wrong input
6:50	No idea	acronym	js	pass
6:56	cephalopodcast	sherlock	ruby	pass
6:58	cephalopodcast	acronym	ruby	pass
```

Sample Output

```text
2 44 cephalopodcast
1 8 Verbose Guac
1 15 No idea
0 0 runtime exception
0 0 Denial
```

---

### Alphabet Train
Find the longest sequence of the same repeating character in a string.  Output
that letter shifted along the alphabet by the number of times it occurs.

For example, if `aa` is the input, the output would be `c`, because `a` shifted
`2` times is `c`.

If your shifting goes off the end of the alphabet, start again at `a`.  So, `z`
shifted `2` times is `b`.

You can assume that there are only spaces and lowercase letters a-z in the
input.  If a character repeats before and after a space, that counts as
restarting the sequence.

Sample Input

```text
hello world
aaaaaa
whyyy
```

Sample Output

```text
n
g
b
```

# Bonus: Write Hamlet's Monologue
Here's a purely fun problem. Translate Hamlet's Monologue into source code.
Create a text file called `hamlet` and write your code snippets in there
along with whatever part of the monologue you're translating.

Have fun. Make it interesting! This bonus is worth zero points towards
problems solved.

| Source                   | English                    |
|------------------------  |----------------------------|
| `b[1] || !b[1]`          | To be or not to be         |
| `!! this ? true : false` | that is the quesiton       |
| ...                      | ...                        |

Some conveneint sample text to inspire you:

```text
To be, or not to be, that is the question:
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles
And by opposing end them. To die—to sleep,
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
That flesh is heir to: 'tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
To sleep, perchance to dream—ay, there's the rub:
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come,
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
Must give us pause—there's the respect
That makes calamity of so long life.
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
Th'oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
The pangs of dispriz'd love, the law's delay,
The insolence of office, and the spurns
That patient merit of th'unworthy takes,
When he himself might his quietus make
With a bare bodkin? Who would fardels bear,
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
But that the dread of something after death,
The undiscovere'd country, from whose bourn
No traveller returns, puzzles the will,
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,
And thus the native hue of resolution
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
And enterprises of great pitch and moment
With this regard their currents turn awry
And lose the name of action.
```
